UPA Middle School Future City Competition Team
Header buttons:
About the competition
About the team
Contact
Landing page:
Competing from August 2026 to December 2026 in Northern California for Regionals
The Future City Competition is a national STEM competition where middle school students build, design, and present a model of a city at least 100 years in the future. The competition combines engineering, science, architecture, art, writing, speech, and teamwork into an interactive building project.
To begin the application process, you must first submit a form no later than September 13th.
Button to form
Your application will be reviewed by the members of the team. If selected, you'll be given a date and time during lunch for an interview. If you are chosen, you'll receive an email with links to some important documents, such as meeting schedules, and a link to join the Discord group chat.
About the competition:
Button to official website (link to https://futurecity.org/)
The Future City Competition is a national STEM competition where middle school students build, design, and present a model of a city at least 100 years in the future. The competition combines engineering, science, architecture, art, writing, speech, and teamwork into an interactive building project.
This year's theme is “Fire Resilient Future,” where students design a resilient future city that can prevent, protect, and recover from urban wildfires.
There are four main deliverables for the project.
(65 points) There is the city model, where teams build a physical model of their city using recycled materials and include one moving part.
(54 points) Then there is the city essay, where teams describe the unique attributes of their city and the solutions to the annual challenge.
(72 points) Then there's the presentation/Q&A part of the competition, where teams, in 7 minutes, present their city and answer questions from a panel of judges.
(10 points) Lastly, there's the project plan, where teams develop a project plan that helps them stay organized and focused.
Timeline.png
Prizes
Teams that win their regional competition advance to the Finals (in Washington, DC). Future City provides round-trip transportation and hotel accommodations for the U.S. team’s three student presenters, educator, and mentor. Learn more about awards and prizes at Future City Finals here.
(to https://futurecity.org/awards/)
About the team:
Sanjana — Co-Founder
Dasha — Co-Founder
Mrs. L. — Educator/Coach
[How it will be run
Contact:
Email Dasha at dkatkova@upatoday.com
Email Sanjana at syedluri@upatoday.com
Email Ms. L. at slapeyrade@upatoday.com


